---
layout: post
title: WWI Story Map
---
**A WWI Story Map**

On the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month,
100 years ago today, the armistice agreement that
ended the First World War took effect and the Great
War came to an end.

This war is not well remembered in the United States
for various reasons. None of the reasons justify
this fact.

It was a war with little purpose to account for the
the intense violence and slaughter experienced by
millions. It left around 20 million people dead and
another 20 million wounded, half of whom were
civilians. It was fueled by new technologies and
ideologies. It weaponized nationalist sentiments to
the same degree as tanks, airplanes, poison gas, or
machine guns. The horrors of this war were the
defining influence on a generation, and its impacts
are felt to this day.

And with the armistice, world leaders decided to
forge ahead without adequately addressing the
underlying issues and impacts of the war, indeed
exacerbating many of these issues. There exist many
parallels to or direct results of these same issues
in conflicts throughout the 20th century, not the
least of which contributed to WWII.

Take today to start thinking more about the First
World War, and please do not stop with today. We owe
it to the casualties and survivors of this war, many
of whom were from our own families or those of our
friends, to honor this part of our shared history,
and most importantly to learn from it and not repeat
it.

Below is a story map detailing the experiences of one
soldier.

<iframe width="100%" height="800px" src="http://www.arcgis.com/apps/MapJournal/index.html?appid=d36f6f26b831456d9401e33875d6def2" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
